IA-32 && IA-64 Architecture
======

IA-32 is an Intel Architecture for 32 bit CPU. The first CPU of this family
is 80386. 
### 80386 CPU

* A 32-bit bus address supporting up to 4G physical memor
* A segmented-memory model and a flat memory model
* Paging, with 4K-page size for virtual memory.

### BASIC EXECUTION ENVIRONMENT

#### Execution modes
IA-32 architecture supports three basic operating modes: protected mode(native mode), real mode(reserved for backward compatibility. The processor is placed in real-address mode following power-up and reset), System management mode(SMM, In SMM, the processor switches to a seperate address space. SMM interrupts will trigger the switch, before that switching the processor will store the context of its current task)
IA-64 architecture adds IA-32e mode.

#### Procedure calls, Interupts, Exceptions
Operating system rely on stacks to make procedure calls, run interupt service routines and handling exceptions. A stack is a contiguous area of memory address which identified by a segment selector in the *SS* register. The head of the stack is kept in *ESP* register. The maximum number of stacks in the system is limited by the number of segments and the amount of physical memory. Only one stack is ativated a time in the system. The *EBP* is typically set to point to the return instruction pointer. The stack pointer for a stack segment should be aligned on 16-bit or 32-bit. The D flag in the segment descriptor for the current code segment sets the stack-segment width.

#### Resources

* [gas Documentation](https://sourceware.org/binutils/docs/as/)
* [Art of Assembly](https://courses.engr.illinois.edu/ece390/books/artofasm/)
* [X86 Assembly](https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/X86_Assembly)